There are things I used to buy and think
to myself, well, this is a good deal.
But times have really changed. Inflation
since 2020 and just the general
shrinkflation that companies are
practicing have made me rethink a lot of
the way that I spend money in 2026. So,
I want to go over the 10 items that I
believe are no longer worth your money.
And in the cases where there are
alternatives, I will share them.
Starting with number one, which are food
delivery apps. So, Door Dash and Uber
Eats are just no longer worth their
money anymore. In 2014 to 2016, when
food delivery apps were taking off, they
were still a novelty. And I think that
many people had the sentiment of, "Wow,
this is really great. They're so
convenient, so easy. I get to order the
same food that I would normally get from
across town in my delivery app." And
back then, often times, these apps would
subsidize the cost of getting your food
delivered because they were still in
their growth phases. They took on a lot
of venture capital money and they would
subsidize the cost of delivery for the
customer in order to acquire more
customers and then get them hooked.
However, it's become increasingly clear
that in 2026, food delivery apps are one
of the worst financial decisions that
you can make. Because not only are there
delivery fees, there are service fees,
bag fees, taxes, and you have to tip as
well. That's not even mentioning the
biggest culprit of them all, which is
that menu items are often marked up once
they hit the Door Dash or Uber Eats app.
You can go to any restaurant's actual
website and then compare the prices on
Door Dash and everything in the app will
be$1 to $2 more and some are even up to
30% more expensive. In fact, as of April
2026, the average Door Dash order is now
commonly 30 to 40% more expensive than
just eating at the restaurant itself.
The only way to have a somewhat
reasonable Door Dash price is to have
their Dash Pass subscription service,
which is $9.99 a month. That means you
have to spend money on a subscription in
order to get your food delivered at a
reasonable price. Let me just show you
guys this example from Chipotle. So,
first off, a burrito is $15.35 in the
app, which is about $1 to $2 more than
in person. Then, when you get to the
checkout screen, it's $22.16
in total. And that's me with Dash Pass
saving on the delivery fee and the
service fee. And of course, I tipped
about $3.50. Now, I personally have Dash
Pass because my credit card gives it to
me as a benefit. But if you didn't have
Dash Pass, you're looking at close to
$29 for a burrito delivered to you. And
that's more than twice the price of the
burrito subtotal. So, not worth your
money. And I would say if you're going
to get food to go, just pick it up
yourself and uninstall food delivery
apps altogether. The second item not
worth your money anymore are brand new
cars and new car payments. The average
new car in America now sells for about
$50,000 and the new car payment averages
around $750 a month as of early 2026.
Even just 10 years ago, the average new
car payment was around $490 a month, and
five to six year loans were pretty
standard with a lower interest rate of
4%. But these days, because of the
combination of interest rates and higher
prices of cars themselves, the car
payment to own a brand new car is
exorbitantly expensive. The most common
way that Americans buy cars now is to
stretch out the loan to 6, 7, or even 8
years. And that means they are financing
a depreciating asset for longer than
most people even want to keep their
cars. Let me show you the actual math on
a $50,000 car financed over 72 months at
a 7% interest rate. You're going to pay
about $11,376
in interest over the course of this
loan. That's $11,000 plus dollars gone
for the privilege of driving a car
that's going to be worth maybe $25,000
by the time you finish paying it off. If
you do a six or sevenyear loan as well,
you might be underwater on the car for
the first couple of years, which means
that you owe more on the loan than what
the car is actually worth. So, if you
totaled your car or if you needed to
sell it, you might have to write an
additional check just to walk away. The
real opportunity cost of owning a brand
new car, though, is quite a lot more
because you could do a lot more with
that money instead. If you invested $750
a month and you put that into a lowcost
S&P 500 index fund over the next 30
years, that amounts to over $1.1 million
in potential money you could have had.
So, that's the real cost of having a
brand new car, and I just don't think it
is worth it here. Now, a good
alternative here to buying a new car is
just to buy a 3 to 5year used car in
cash or perhaps with a small loan. That
way, most of the depreciation has
already been chipped away because it's 3
to 5 years used. And therefore, you
would essentially be getting a 30 to 40%
discount on what the car retailed for
initially. Personally, I would rather
drive a 3-year used Toyota, for example,
that I own 100% of than a brand new car
where I have to owe payments on it for
the next 7 years of my life. Moving on
to number three today, which is
upgrading your iPhone every single year.
Apple's job is to get the most money
that it can from its customers. And they
are very good at that goal. They are one
of the most profitable and biggest
companies in the world. And the way they
do this is by coming out with a refresh
of their hardware every single year like
clockwork. Since the iPhone was
introduced in 2007, Apple has literally
had an event almost every September
announcing their next model. Early on,
this was fine. we would see huge
improvements in hardware and form
factor. Phones would get smaller,
thinner, faster, etc. But these days,
there's hardly a difference between the
iPhone 14 and iPhone 15 and iPhone 16,
as an example. The only upgrade that
might be worth it is if you're going
from an olderish model, say the iPhone
11 or iPhone 12, to the newest model,
which is the iPhone 17 with a new form
factor and the many different cameras it
has. Also, with phones getting so costly
these days now over $1,000, it's
definitely worth it to try and hold off
as long as you can before upgrading. If
you can wait three to four years before
buying a new phone, that'll still allow
you to enjoy meaningful upgrades without
spending money every 12 months.
Personally, I won't buy a new phone
unless there's something very specific
about the newest release that appeals to
me and can't be substituted for in my
current device. So, I just don't think
upgrading your iPhone every year is
worth it anymore. And I see many people
fall into this trap of upgrading every
product cycle. So, if that is you, just
know that you might be falling for
Apple's marketing, which is admittedly
some of the best in the world. So, I get
why that happens. The fourth item on our
list today is taking a step into the
investing world. And that would be
investing in an actively managed mutual
fund. An actively managed mutual fund is
a fund where a professional portfolio
manager and their team actively pick
stocks and try to beat the market. Now,
in exchange for the actively managed
treatment that you are getting by
investing into this fund, you usually
pay an expense ratio somewhere between
75% and 1.5% of your total investment
every single year. One famous actively
managed ETF, for example, is the ARK
line of ETFs by Kathy Wood. You can see
that the ARK Innovation ETF has a
management fee of 75% listed on their
website. And while there may be times
when an actively managed fund
outperforms the S&P 500, you can see
that in this case with the ARC
Innovation ETF, it's down 40% over the
past 5 years, while the S&P 500 is up
over 65 to 66% in that same time period.
Now, you could have made the case for an
actively managed mutual fund perhaps in
the '9s or early 2000s. But these days,
there's so much data out there about how
actively managed funds, they often don't
even beat the S&P 500. According to S&P
Global, from the 20 years from 2005 to
2025, the number of funds that
outperformed their benchmarks was in the
low singledigit percentages. You can see
the percentage of funds here that
underperform their benchmarks are mostly
in the 85 to 90 plus percentages. That
means that's not very good for an active
fund. That means most of these people
are just not beating the S&P 500. In
2026, there are so many passively
managed ETFs like VO, VTI, FX, AIX, and
these are all lowcost index funds with
an expense ratio of around 0.03%.
That's a $3 fee for every $10,000 you
have invested over the period of a year,
and that's very low. The difference in
fees can have a big impact on the
outcome of your portfolio over time. So,
let's say you have $500,000 invested and
your portfolio grows at an 8% rate for
30 years. If you're in a lowcost index
fund paying 0.03%, you'll end up with
around $5 million at the end of those 30
years. But if you're in an actively
managed mutual fund paying 1% a year,
you end up with around $3.8 million.
That's $1.2 million of a difference
gone, not just from performance, but
actually just from fees. So these days,
I don't think there's much of an
argument for having an actively managed
fund anymore. If you have a 401k, I
would go check it right now and see what
you're invested in and make sure that
you're not invested in anything with too
high of an expense ratio. So, if you see
that you're invested in anything with
over a 0.25% or.3% expense ratio, I
would seriously consider an alternative
investment or an alternative fund if
there is one. Another item no longer
worth the money in 2026 are extended
warranties. Now, I've talked about this
in another video, but if you're usually
at a Costco or say a Best Buy and you're
buying an electronic device like a
laptop or TV, sometimes they'll ask you
to buy a 3-year extended warranty for
that product. But I don't think this is
worth it for a few reasons. So, first,
if you have a premium credit card like
the Chase Sapphire Preferred or the
American Express Gold or maybe some of
the Capital 1 Venture cards, these will
automatically extend the manufacturer's
warranty by an additional year on
eligible purchases for free. That means
you would be literally paying Best Buy
for coverage that you already have as
part of a credit card benefit that you
own already. Another con is that
extended warranties have exclusions and
they might not cover all the repairs for
damages that happen to your product,
which would be a huge bummer. Extended
warranties are usually overpriced and
one of the highest margin products in
all of retail for a reason. They try to
prey on your emotions and try to capture
your money upfront when you're making
this big purchasing decision that you
don't want to risk damaging. But the
truth is that the company selling it is
hoping that you misplace your warranty.
Forget that it exists or just lapses by
the time your product needs fixing. So I
just stay away from extended warranties.
I just understand that if it breaks, I
will eat the cost and buy another one.
The sixth item today that's no longer
worth your money anymore are wellness
products. Wellness used to be a niche
where you would take care of yourself,
maybe through a face mask, a massage, a
nice bath, or some skincare products.
But these days, it's a full-blown
industry that uses your anxiety against
you to ensure that you buy overpriced
things for your health. I'm talking
about the $25 smoothies at Arowan, the
$300 aloe yoga sets, or perhaps peptides
and GLP1s that promise you that you're
going to be skinnier, healthier, and
happier. The wellness industry is
projected to hit $7 trillion globally,
and most of it is on selling you the
idea that you need to buy these items in
order to feel healthy and well. I
personally think there is no secret to
becoming happy and healthy. It's usually
just pretty boring activities. I would
bet that if you took a walk every single
day and you slept a full 8 hours a
night, you drank water, you ate real
foods and not processed ones, and you
did exercise, that you would feel really
good in your body more and more. I think
that the wellness industry is becoming a
shortcut industry. People just want the
results without doing the work. And
that's what wellness is becoming. So, I
would say if you can just do the boring
stuff, you will be happier. And you
don't need to spend money for that
either. Now, this next item is one that
I don't think is worth the money anymore
financially, especially in 2026, but
it's still one that people are going to
buy, and that is a starter home. A
starter home used to be the American
dream, but it also used to be a lot more
affordable based on the math. For
example, in 2016, so 10 years ago, the
math on a starter home usually made it
so that the cost of owning was very
comparable to the cost of renting. Back
then, you had 4% mortgage rates and home
prices were still somewhat recovering
from the 2008 financial crisis. But
these days, the landscape is a lot
different, especially with mortgage
rates sitting around 6.5 to 7%.
According to Lending Tree, renting is
cheaper than owning in every large
metro. And they found that quote, "Us
homeowners with a mortgage pay 36.9%
more a month than renters." So, here's
an example from My Home, the Bay Area. A
$1.2 million starter home here with 20%
down at a 7% mortgage rate is roughly
$8,500 a month after property taxes,
insurance, and maintenance. A comparable
home with the same number of bedrooms
might rent for $5,000 a month in the
same area. That means at least here you
would be paying $35 extra per month just
for the privilege of owning. So unless
you really wanted to stay in that exact
location for the next 10 to 20 years,
then perhaps you are better off renting
and then investing the difference. Now,
some people might still buy a starter
home for the psychological benefits such
as the fact that you own the place. You
never have to worry about packing up and
moving at any point. And it's also nice
to have a fixed payment even if it's not
the most financially sound decision. So
a starter home in 2026 is no longer
worth the money. Now this next item is
definitely not worth your money and that
is any spending relating to status. In
our society these days, people are
always trying to stand out and so people
are spending money in order to show off
to others that they have money. This
could be in the form of designer goods,
tickets to Coachella, buying a new car
that they can't afford, or renting a
table at a club for $2,000 in order to
have bottle service. And the problem
with spending money on status is that it
doesn't really contribute to your net
worth at the end of the day, nor does it
help your financial foundation. And the
problem with America these days is that
the difference between being on track
for retirement and ahead financially and
being completely broke could just be the
difference of a few hundred per month.
And that's what I try to teach you guys
on this channel is that just a couple
hundred per month could make a huge
difference in your life later on. So, I
don't think spending money on status is
worth the money at all. And I would say
that if you are thinking about a status
purchase, I want you to ask yourself the
question, would you still want the item
if no one else could see it? If the
answer is yes, then at least you know
you're not buying it to impress other
people that you don't really care about.
Then it just becomes whether or not that
purchase fits your budget or not. All
right, moving on to the next item, which
is number nine. Fast food. Now, I'm a
huge fan of fast food, okay? I grew up
on McDonald's. I grew up on In-N-Out,
and I loved Burger King as a kid. But
these days, I've noticed that the price
difference between fast food and just
casual dining is pretty negligible. When
I went to McDonald's just a few months
ago, I looked at the menu prices and I
saw that a double quarter pounder meal
was close to $14, which means that at
that point, I don't think fast food is
the value option that many American
families are used to eating anymore. For
14 bucks, I might be able to go to my
local Takaria or my casual sit-down spot
and I would get a way better meal and
definitely healthier, too. That's
because while the price gap between fast
food and casual dining has almost
completely closed, the quality gap, I
feel like, is still pretty massive. I
would much rather pay $14 to $15 to a
local restaurant knowing that I'm
getting real food rather than to a fast
food chain that's probably shipping
frozen food in from their factories from
across the country. Another type of fast
food that's gone up a lot in price,
especially in the last 10 years, is
pizza. I have definitely spent $40 for a
pizza pie in the last year. And I just
thought that that was a ripoff for what
it actually was. The only saving grace
out of all of this is probably Costco.
They still have the $1.50 hot dog deal,
and their pizzas are usually about $10.
This video is not sponsored by Costco,
but I still love the fact that they
still have value items, especially at
their food court. And the 10th item no
longer worth your money are
unfortunately concerts. 10 years ago,
you could have bought a concert ticket
to a pretty big artist for between $50
to $100 for the night. Now, that wasn't
exactly cheap, but it was still doable
for a lot of people and their budgets.
In fact, I vividly remember throughout
the year of 2015 and 2016 going to
multiple concerts and I just thought
that it wasn't that big of a deal in
terms of an expense. But these days when
someone brings up that they want to go
to a concert, the immediate place where
my mind goes is, okay, is this going to
be a $100 concert or is this going to be
more like a $200 or $300 or $400 outing
after you count for the ticket master
fees, the transportation getting there,
plus the food or drinks that you're
going to get at the concert, it might be
quite a lot of money. In fact, I went to
a concert around Thanksgiving of last
year, and I remember it being about $50.
And I said to myself to my head, "Wow,
that's pretty cheap." But then I
realized that 10 years ago that would
have just been par for the course and
maybe even on the expensive side. I
think there are many factors
contributing to the fact that concerts
are way more expensive. The first being
co during that time a lot of concerts
weren't being held and so when concerts
finally started back up again there was
so much pent-up demand. People had all
this money they weren't spending during
co and now they were willing to spend
more for a concert ticket. Now I also
want to blame Taylor Swift. Yes, I'm
going to blame her because when she came
out with the Aerys tour after cancelling
her tour that was supposed to happen
during co the prices for these tickets
just became astronomical. Social media
magnified and normalized the price that
people were willing to pay to go see
her. And so I think that really anchored
a lot of people that were online at the
time and they just think that concerts
just cost that much now. Then finally, I
also blame companies like Ticketmaster.
Services fees, processing fees, facility
fees, delivery fees, but guess what?
It's still just a digital ticket. So,
what are the fees even for? These days,
it's not uncommon to see a $200 concert
ticket on Ticketmaster and then all of a
sudden it's $275 after all the fees are
said and done. The alternative I would
recommend here is to see a local artist
or a smaller venue show. So, sometimes
paying 20 bucks to see an upandcoming
artist in a 300 person room is going to
be a way better experience than seeing a
megastar for $400 where you have to sit
in the nosebleleed section of a stadium.
So, that's it. Those are the 10 things I
think are no longer worth your money in
2026. Of course, I'm sure I probably
missed a bunch and maybe you don't agree
with some of the things that I have on
this list. I would still love to hear
from you in the comments what you've cut
from your budget over the last few years
or if you still think some things are
worth it. Thank you for watching and if
you really enjoyed this video, I think
you would enjoy a video where I deep
dive into the car payment trap of 2026.
I will leave it linked right here. I'll
see you in that video or a future one on
the channel hopefully. And thank you for
being here again. All right. Peace.