What's up, guys? It's Graeme here, and
this is the most unbelievable market
that I have ever seen. Believe it or
not, we are in the middle right now of
one of the strongest stock market
rallies ever in history. We're back near
brand new all-time highs. And what's
crazy is that this isn't just applying
to stocks. For example, home sales are
also increasing. Bitcoin is up 13%. And
this might officially suggest that we're
beginning to see the start of the great
meltup where asset prices balloon to
levels we never thought were imaginable
before eventually everything goes to sh.
That's why we really got to talk about
exactly what's happening, why the
Federal Reserve decided not to lower
interest rates as of a few hours ago, if
this is something to be concerned about.
And then most importantly, how you could
use this information to come out ahead.
Because like it or not, this could be
the last phase of the cycle where
everyone feels rich right before the
bill comes due. Although, before we
start, as usual, if you appreciate
breaking news videos like this that I
try to get out as soon as possible, it
would mean the world to me if you hit
the like button and subscribed if you
haven't done that already. I know it's
dumb to ask, but it was just my birthday
and as a birthday wish, that's all I ask
for. And as a thank you for doing that,
here's a picture of a frog. So, thanks
so much. And also big thank you to Surf
Shark for sponsoring this video, but
more on that later. All right, so before
we talk about what the Federal Reserve
just said, why Jerome Pal is soon going
to be leaving, and what to expect for
the future, there is one giant problem
getting in the way, and that would be
inflation. See, here's what most people
don't realize. Behind every price tag,
every product, every shipment is one
commodity that quietly controls the cost
of pretty much everything, and that's
oil. Remember, oil doesn't just power
your car. It powers cargo ships, trucks,
planes, tractors, factories, plastics,
packaging, fertilizers, and the entire
supply chain that gets everything into
your hands. So when the cost of oil goes
up, the cost of everything else rises
almost immediately. And in this case, it
was found that every $10 a barrel
increase in the price of crude oil
raises inflation by2% and sets back
economic growth by.1%.
To put that into perspective, just a few
months ago, oil was trading at $57 a
barrel, but now it's over $100. And from
this alone, we could see inflation
increasing by roughly.7%.
And like I said, it's already begun to
happen. For example, last month
inflation increased back to 3.3%. And
even though it seems like the worst is
behind us, keep in mind that reading was
before oil reached its all-time high,
which implies that this next month could
be significantly worse. It's for this
reason that the Federal Reserve has
essentially frozen or paused any chance
of a rate cut this year with right now
the market pricing in the next rate cut
in October of 2027. So, in terms of what
to expect, why we're starting to see a
generational meltup and what the Federal
Reserve just warned us about a few hours
ago, there's another topic that is worth
considering, and that would be the stock
market. When it comes to this, here's
what's crazy. By all metrics, stock
prices are setting non-stop records.
Like we've just seen a 10% rally in 10
days, which is one of the strongest
we've ever witnessed. It went from
oversold to overbought in just 11 days,
the second fastest on record. And the
NASDAQ saw a 13-day win streak, the most
in 13 years. However, here's where
things are getting incredibly
interesting. At the same time, the stock
market is doing incredibly well.
Consumer sentiment is hitting its lowest
point in the survey's entire 70-year
history. And when these two things
happen simultaneously, that's a sign
that something's about to break. So
what's going on? Well, here's the
uncomfortable truth. The stock market
and consumer sentiment are literally
measuring two completely separate things
right now. The stock market is extremely
forwardinking. It only cares about
what's going to happen 12 months from
now. Things like corporate earnings,
trade resolutions, and future growth.
Consumer sentiment, on the other hand,
measures how everyday people feel about
today. things like grocery prices, oil
prices, their job security. And that's
why we're seeing that Wall Street is
betting on tomorrow. Main Street is
living through today and the worlds are
completely separate. Now, even though
this might sound like a dystopian
universe where the top rich people get
really rich and everyone else is kind of
left to fend for themselves, believe it
or not, when consumer sentiment is at a
low, historically, that's actually been
a rather good time to invest because
when sentiment starts to improve, stocks
just keep melting up higher. And usually
the best prices are associated with
maximum pain, not necessarily the
maximum price. Although, even with all
of that said, I will admit I am in
constant disbelief by how quickly the
market has returned to all-time highs.
Like, objectively, we still have a mess
of an economy with oil. All rate cuts
this year have been completely wiped off
the table. Inflation is still an ongoing
issue, and somehow markets just keep
going higher. That's why I'm such a firm
believer that you cannot time the
markets. You have no idea what's going
to happen a week from now. And even
though everything might look
pessimistic, the markets don't care.
Like we could see an all-out destruction
of our economy, but the market keeps
going higher because they think we'll
build back even bigger tomorrow. Or we
could have all this good news in the
world and things sell off because people
just want to take profit. Point being,
we have watched the market fall in one
of its worst stretches in years to one
of its strongest rallies ever in history
in 10 days. The people who sold at the
bottom to wait for clarity missed the
entire rally. And the irony is that the
market is always at its best price when
things look the most uncertain. And it
always looks the most safe right before
it drops. To me, that's just why it's so
important to keep investing and stay the
course no matter what. Because most
likely, we're not going to outperform
the hedge funds and all the people with
insider information that know what's
going to happen before it actually
happens. We just can't compete with
that. But we can join the same ride
alongside with everyone else by just
investing long-term. So, in terms of
what this means for you, how this is
likely going to impact everything else
like home prices and what Jerome Powell
just said at his last meeting ever with
the Federal Reserve, here's what you
came for. Although, before we go into
that, it's important to understand the
bigger picture. Because this isn't just
about a single headline. It's about a
broader shift throughout our entire
economy. And when that happens,
protecting yourself isn't just
financial, it's digital, too. For
example, during times of uncertainty,
more people are logging into bank
accounts, moving money around, and
checking on their investments, which
often means more exposure on public
Wi-Fi, airports, and unsecured networks.
That is exactly where using a VPN
becomes crucial. And what a coincidence,
our sponsor, Surf SharkVPN, is there to
help. They're able to protect your
personal information by encrypting your
online data, masking your IP address,
and preventing hackers from identifying
your city, country, or download history.
or basically a VPN is able to swap the
real location of your device with the
new one, giving you the ability to
virtually travel anywhere around the
globe. This means anytime I'm out of the
country, like I was just recently in
South Korea, I'm able to switch my
location back to the United States so
that everything works normally, or if
there are shows that are only available
in select countries, I could instantly
change my location and watch them from
wherever I am. On top of that, Surf
Shark's clean web feature also blocks
ads, trackers, malware, and fishing
attempts, allowing you to surf the web
safely. Plus, they don't track, store,
or monitor what you do online. This
means there's no connection or activity
logs whatsoever. So, you could rest
assured your activity is private. Look,
in all seriousness, every single time
I'm online, I just connect to a VPN
because it takes you a split second. And
if you don't control your own data, then
someone else is. So, if you want to try
it out for yourself, just visit
surfshark.com/gra
or use the link down below in the
description and use the code graham at
checkout to get an extra four months for
free. They also have a 30-day money back
guarantee so that you can try it out for
free and just see what you think and get
a full refund if you're not 100%
satisfied. Again, that link is down
below with a good gram. Enjoy. Thank you
so much. Now, let's get back to the
video. All right. Now, in terms of what
the Federal Reserve just said, what's
happening with your money, and what's
going on throughout the rest of the
market, there are two more topics worth
considering, with one of the biggest
surprises being Bitcoin. Just consider
that during a month when the S&P 500 is
up 12%, Bitcoin is up 13%. And even
though it's still down from its all-time
highs, higher prices are still looking
more and more likely in the near future.
Why? Well, the start. A lot of
institutional money is flowing back into
Bitcoin ETFs. Strategy officially
overtook the US government is the
largest holder of Bitcoin. Schwab City
and Goldman Sachs are all soon offering
their own cryptocurrency projects. And
with the national debt continuing to
rise, people are looking for alternative
ways to hedge their money. Now look,
objectively, Bitcoin is still down about
30% from its peak. And yeah, when it
fell to $60,000, that was rough to see
those types of losses in your account,
especially when everyone was saying this
time Bitcoin is actually done for. It's
never going to come back. Even with all
the institutional ETFs, it's still going
down in price. We're done forever. But
my gosh, literally every single time I
start to doubt myself, turns out to be
one of the best opportunities to buy
because since then, it's up quite a bit.
Like for the last couple of months, I
have been doubling down on buying
Bitcoin ETFs. When my account was red, I
just kept shoveling more money back into
it to lower my average cost. And I'm
glad I did so far because from the very
bottom I'm up about 25% in just about 2
months. Now, even though it very easily
could have gone the other way and kept
going down in price, I've just noticed
that when you do the opposite of what
the general market believes, it usually
works out in your favor. So, when
everyone says, "Oh, it's going to keep
dropping. I'm not going to buy until it
hits 30K."
Tends to be the very bottom. Just from
my experience. Now, the same thing also
applies when everyone believes, "Oh,
it's going to hit a million dollars.
It's going to hit $250,000 this year.
Maybe that's also a good time to sell in
hindsight." Okay, keep in mind, I'm
still less than 15% of my entire
portfolio in a Bitcoin ETF. So, it's not
like I'm going all in on this, unlike
some people. But, I am long-term
optimistic for the future, unlike the
next topic, and that would be the
housing market. Believe it or not,
despite national home prices rising 1.4%
4% year-over-year. Sillow just
downgraded their forecast across 400
markets, predicting that over the next
12 months, prices would rise by a
whopping 0%. Of course, do keep in mind
that this is the national average, which
means just as many places will be going
up in price as will be falling. But in
terms of where the biggest changes are
happening right now, here's what I found
the most surprising. They think that
prices will be completely flat around
the west coast throughout California,
Oregon, Washington, and Nevada. Larger
drops are anticipated throughout the
Sunb Belt regions like Texas, Louisiana,
and Florida. And price increases are
commonly seen throughout the northern
markets like Chicago, Rochester, and
Connecticut. Why? Well, it's pretty
straightforward. The areas seeing the
biggest declines are also the ones that
saw the biggest runups over the last few
years. And now that prices have risen to
a level that most buyers cannot afford,
prices are coming back down. Will buyers
relocate to other areas that are more
affordable, which happens to be in the
Northeast, where you could still buy a
decent house for $350,000.
However, the one sticking point for
housing prices, regardless of location,
is really just all going to come down to
two words: mortgage rates. The reality
is higher oil prices have led to higher
inflation expectations, which has led to
higher mortgage rates. The entire market
is more interconnected than most people
could even imagine, and as a result,
borrowing costs have remained pretty
high. Although, the good news here is
that this is not going to last forever.
But any decrease is probably not going
to be as meaningful as you'd expect. For
example, Yahoo Finance argued that
mortgage rates could fall to just 5.7%
by 2030. Except even that would only
increase a buyer's purchasing power by
about 5%. So, yes, it helps, but it's
probably not enough to turn someone who
can't afford to buy a house today into
someone who suddenly can. But in terms
of what this means throughout the rest
of the year, I've said this before, but
it really depends on who you ask. Like,
Redin believes we'll see a 2.6% increase
throughout the end of the year. The
National Association of Realtors thinks
we'll see a 4% gain. Zillow is back down
to 0% and JP Morgan seconds this also
believing that we'll see no appreciation
whatsoever. Even anecdotally, I'm seeing
a lot of softening here in Las Vegas.
Like, I can't tell you how many
properties that I am seeing selling at a
5 to 15% loss from where they purchased
in 2021 to 2023. These are people who
locked in at record low interest rates
only to sell at a massive loss before
commissions only because so much
inventory is coming on the market and
there's a lot to compete with. That's
why I'm seeing a lot of buyers on the
sidelines right now cautiously watching
the market. They know there's no urgency
to buy something immediately. If they
miss out, there's going to be something
else listed, probably at the same price
or less in the next few months while
they save up. And sellers are beginning
to recognize this by pricing their homes
a little more aggressively and being
willing to negotiate. So, in terms of
what this means for you, what Jerome
Powell just said at his very last
meeting, and what you could do to come
out ahead from this, here's what you
need to know. All right. So, in terms of
what Jerome Powell just said at his very
last meeting, no surprise on a broad
scale, there will not be any interest
rate cuts for the foreseeable future due
to ongoing inflation concerns, rising
prices, worsened consumer spending, and
a fragile labor market. Although, here's
where things get interesting. As of
right now, Jerome Powell is scheduled to
end his term at the Federal Reserve on
May 15th. And then shortly after, it's
expected that Kevin Worsh is going to
take his place, giving him a guaranteed
4-year term within the Federal Reserve.
Now, even though Kevin Worsh was
specifically nominated by Donald Trump,
who has been pushing non-stop for lower
interest rates for years, Kevin Worsh
did say that monetary policy
independence is essential and they must
act in the nation's interest with
unclouded decision-making. Basically
implying that he's not just going to be
a puppet for whatever Trump wants him to
do. But then again, that's probably also
exactly what he'd say, even if he did
push for lower interest rates. and he
could always argue that it's in the best
interest of the United States to lower
interest rates, which just so happens to
be what Trump wants. But he didn't
influence us. Promise you that. We came
to this by our own conclusion. So
actions at this point will speak louder
than words. However, do keep in mind
that since 1930, once a new Fed share
takes office, the stock market sees an
average decline of 16%. And Kevin Morris
is taking office at a time where he
openly wants to shrink the Fed balance
sheet, meaning less money printing.
We're already nearing similar levels to
the dot peak. And this could be a very
interesting time to watch, even though
in the past everything we thought was
going to happen never happened. So take
that with a grain of salt. So in terms
of my own approach, what I think is
going to happen over the next 12 months
and what this means for you, here's what
to keep in mind. In all seriousness,
there's one thing that I just keep
coming back to. Every single time
without fail that I think I have the
market figured out, that I know what's
going to happen, that I try to be
clever, the opposite happens. Like even
if you take all the data, analyze it
correctly, and make a move, one tweet,
and the entire thing changes. Like the
people who've sold in April missed out
on one of the fastest rallies ever in
history. The people who didn't buy
Bitcoin at $60,000 because it's going to
$50,000
just missed out on almost 30% upside.
And the market always seems to make you
feel the most confident right before it
humbles you. That's why I just keep
saying the same thing. The only strategy
that consistently works is when you
decide how much money you want to invest
every month. Pick an allocation that you
could live with through a 30 to 50% draw
down and then just don't stop. No matter
what Jerome Powell says, no matter what
Trump says, no matter who replaces him,
no matter what oil does, no matter what
inflation does, it doesn't matter. You
just stay consistent. No matter what.
I've been saying this non-stop since you
could look back at my old videos, early
2017. Back then, I remember making a
video and the S&P 500 hit its all-time
high in the 2000s. And back then, people
were worried about a bubble or a big
market crash. And I said, "Well,
historically, it's usually best to keep
buying in." And had you done that, you
would be up like 200 plus percent since
then. Oh, it was a great time to buy.
And hey, that's not to say that we can't
see a drop. And who knows, maybe there's
a black swan event in a few months and
we're down 50%. Who knows, maybe I've
just jinxed that into existence. But
regardless, long-term, that's the only
strategy that has worked and I put my
money where my mouth is. Every single
day, I buy in a consistent amount
regardless of where it trades. And so
far, that's worked really, really well,
just like hitting the like button and
subscribing if you haven't done that
already. And by the way, if you want
early access to videos like this along
with bonus videos every single week that
I don't post publicly, feel free to join
as a channel member. Helps out
tremendously. And I'm posting a lot of
videos over there that I just don't have
the time to make a dedicated video for
here. I even just posted my entire watch
collection for everyone to see. I'm
talking everything I have, what I paid,
what it's worth, what I look for when I
buy a watch, everything. So, if you want
extra content, feel free to join.