Let's go through every financial trap
you will encounter on your path to
building wealth and how to avoid them
starting with number one,
overconcentration. This is also known as
holding too much in one asset and is
typically defined as when you have a
single stock or an investment in your
portfolio that makes up more than 10% of
your overall holdings. So, if your
portfolio is worth $100,000 and you have
$50,000 in Google stock, that might not
be the best idea. When this happens, you
are basically betting on one outcome
being correct, which is that a lot of
your financial future is going to depend
on how well Google stock is performing.
If you'd like a cautionary tale as to
why you might not want to concentrate
too heavily in one single asset or
stock, consider the tech company Intel.
They were once a darling tech stock
during the dot com bubble that peaked
around $65 a share. Now, if you had
bought it back then, you can see by the
chart that's on the screen, you would
still not have broken through its
all-time highs back in 2000, even with
the recent run-up Intel has had with the
AI news. Compare that to the performance
of the S&P 500 since 2000, which has 5x
since then. So, what we are basically
looking in our portfolios is a
consistent gain over time and
overconcentrating can actually be a big
trap. Not only could you jeopardize
those consistent gains, you could also
get emotionally attached to that single
holding and that's the opposite of
rational objective investing. Most
portfolio managers and financial
advisers like to see no single stock
exceed 5 to 10% of your total portfolio.
So, take a look at yours and let me know
if you're too overconcentrated. That's a
trap on how to invest your money, but
what about how you spend it? So, trap
number two today is lifestyle creep.
This is one of the most common traps
that we talk about on this channel and
that's when your expenses increase
alongside your income. All right, take a
look at this table from Goldman Sachs. I
know it's going to be a little bit
crazy. These are the percentages of
workers that are saying that they are
living paycheck-to-paycheck. You can see
that someone making less than $50,000
per year, 57% of those people say that
they are living paycheck-to-paycheck.
But what is crazier to look at is the
higher income ranges. 41% of people
making over $300,000 a year say they
live paycheck-to-paycheck and people
making over $500,000, so that's half a
million dollars a year by the way, 40%
of those people report that they are
living paycheck-to-paycheck, which
should be really alarming to you. The
true way to build wealth is by keeping
your lifestyle cheap and modest while
your income increases and that's
actually one of the lessons of the book
The Millionaire Next Door. The author
studied in that book hundreds of
millionaires in the '90s and found that
the best accumulators of wealth kept
their spending habits the same while
their income grew at a rapid pace. I
also think if you become so obsessed
with possessions, you may lose sight of
what's actually important in life and
that's why I think true fulfillment can
often come from meaningful experiences
rather than accumulating things. When
you focus on experiences like going to
new places, learning new skills, or
simply spending quality time with your
loved ones, you will create lasting
memories and personal growth that in my
opinion, no items can provide. So,
whenever you get a raise or a promotion,
you're going to start to make more money
and you might be tempted to show off
that money via your lifestyle. But for
your own sake, just try not to get
involved in this game. Trap number three
today is being tax inefficient. So, I
know taxes are probably the last thing
you want to hear about today, but taxes
are likely your single largest expense.
More than your rent, more than your car,
more than anything else that you spend
money on. You want to be strategic about
taxes because if you're not, you're
seriously just leaving a bunch of money
on the table. The most common mistakes I
see are people not taking advantage of
tax loss harvesting, holding investments
in the wrong accounts, and
underestimating how much a capital gains
tax bill will actually cost them when
they sell a position. For holding
investments in the wrong accounts,
something I see quite often is that
people put their high dividend stocks in
a taxable brokerage account instead of a
tax sheltered account like a Roth IRA or
an IRA. When you do the former, you
actually owe taxes on dividends every
time you receive them and that is
something that's just inefficient. There
are some proactive things you can do to
reduce your tax liability. So, for
example, maxing out your 401k, your IRA,
or even your HSA. If you are holding
stocks, you might want to consider
holding them for longer than a year to
qualify for long-term capital gains
rates. And lastly, learn about tax loss
harvesting because strategically selling
your positions that have losses in order
to offset realized gains can actually
reduce your tax bill quite a bit,
especially at the end of the year. The
IRS will always take a cut of taxes and
your job is to make sure that you're not
paying them more than you should be.
Speaking of not paying more than you
should, the same logic will apply to
your debts because trap number four
today is being lazy about refinancing
even when it could save you a lot of
money. If you have a mortgage, the
general rule of thumb is that a 1% drop
in your mortgage rate is where
refinancing really starts to make a lot
of sense. Let's say you have a $400,000
mortgage on a $500,000 home and your
current mortgage rate is 7%. If you were
to refinance to 6%, your payment goes
from 2661 per month at the previous rate
to 2398 per month and that's about a
$263
per month savings that you're going to
get. Now, typically refinancing does
cost some money, so usually runs about 2
to 3% of your total loan. So, on
$400,000, that could be anywhere from 8
to $12,000 that you might be paying in
refinancing fees. So, for our sake,
let's say the fee to refinance is
$10,000. To break even on those fees,
the savings that you get every single
month, you need about 38 months to
recoup the cost. So, really then, the
key question becomes, how long do you
plan to stay in your home? If this is
your forever home or you want to stay in
the home for at least 5 to 7 years, a 1%
drop in your rate can make a lot of
sense. If you're moving in the next year
or two, then it probably doesn't make
sense to refinance at all. This trap I
think is relevant to anyone carrying a
high interest rate, whether that's your
mortgage or your auto loan. If you
locked in a mortgage or loan during 2023
or 2024 when rates were at their
highest, it's probably worth running the
numbers right now. If you're looking to
compare some mortgage offers, I will
leave a link down below in the
description to a tool from bankrate.com
that's completely free that you can try
out and that way at least you can
compare and see what today's market
looks like. Now, trap number five is
going to surprise you because it's not
about money at all. It's about something
that you can never get back and that is
your time because one of the biggest
financial traps people fall into when
they're building their net worth is that
they work too much. This is a financial
trap, but also just a general trap for
your well-being. In terms of financials,
as your net worth grows, your time
starts to become exponentially more
valuable than your labor. So, I'm going
to give you a very extreme example here
and bear with me, but this is just to
illustrate the point of the value of
your time. Let's say you have 5 million
bucks in a portfolio and you get a
conservative 5% return per year. That's
$250,000
per year your money is making. That's
$684 a day just from your portfolio. So,
at what point does an extra hour of work
start to have diminishing returns
compared to what your capital is already
doing for you? That's what you should
constantly be asking yourself. What I've
noticed though is that people who are
successful in their careers, well, they
sometimes are workaholics. Even though
they've already made enough money to
live a fulfilling life, they already
have enough money to perhaps retire
early, they still continue working way
too much. In fact, one of the top
regrets of people on their deathbeds is
that they worked too much throughout
life and didn't get to enjoy it. So, I
would say work hard when you're young
and you're establishing yourself, but if
you're constantly growing your net worth
and your portfolio is growing and your
income is growing too, maybe just audit
how much you're working. The last thing
I would want to see you do is work 80
hours per week and all of a sudden
you're the age of 65. Trap number six
today is overconfidence from early
success. Now, if you are someone who
finds themselves quite successful,
especially early on in life, this trap
is for you, which is that you could
become so overconfident from your early
success that it could actually sabotage
you. I'm going to give you an investing
analogy here, but I had a friend who
liked to diversify his portfolio into 10
stocks at all times and that was his
entire portfolio, just 10 stocks. That
already falls into trap number one
today, which was overconcentration, but
it's also incredibly risky, but that's
what he was going for. He wanted high
risk, high reward. Now, this strategy
admittedly worked quite well for him in
2023 and 2024 when he picked 10 stocks
that did well those years. I mean, not
all of them were winners, but let's say
he picked eight great ones and two bad
ones. Overall, his portfolio did really
well. So, after this happened, he
suddenly had this bravado about him that
he suddenly believed that he was the
greatest investor of all time. So, what
did he do? Unfortunately, this person
doubled down and they started to take
bigger and bigger risks. Those 10 stocks
that he had in his portfolio, he decided
to concentrate even further and just go
down to five stocks. He would even buy
call options on earnings dates and trade
on margin from time to time and I
recently heard from this said friend and
he is down over 30% in his portfolio
this year alone when the S&P 500 is only
down about 2% overall. So, the hard
truth here is that sometimes a
two-to-three-year hot streak doesn't
make you a great investor. It just might
mean you got lucky in a bull market. The
longer your overconfidence goes
unchecked, the more painful the
corrections might be. Statistically, 90
to 95% of day traders lose money over a
long period of time. So, I would say if
you're trying to get into day trading,
just don't. Let's move on to trap number
seven and that is when your finances
become too complex. When you start
growing your net worth and earning a
good income, you may start to diversify
investments into many different places.
People will have multiple brokerage
accounts, multiple bank accounts, angel
investments, private investments, and
they might even enter into real estate
partnerships. According to this article
from DIY Investor, he says, quote,
"While more than 82% of high earners say
they feel confident making investment
decisions involving six-figure sums,
nearly a third of those admitted that
they have just pretended to understand a
major investment decision despite not
fully grasping what they were dealing
with." One of the key people interviewed
in this is a CEO of a wealth platform in
the UK called Sidekick and he states
that when portfolios tend to reach a
certain size, all of a sudden,
structure, risk, and fees matter much,
much more. The trap here is that this
financial complexity in your portfolio
will create blind spots. So, the more
moving pieces that you have, the easier
it is to miss a hidden fee,
misunderstand a risk, or just make a
wrong call. There's really not too much
actionable advice that I have for you in
this section. I would just say that if
your net worth and your income are
growing to a point where it's getting a
little complex, maybe that is when you
meet with a financial advisor and you
consult with them for any next steps.
Trap number eight today is being too
illiquid, or what a lot of people like
to call being asset rich but cash poor.
This is when the majority of your wealth
is being tied up by things that you
can't easily access. So, let's say you
have your entire net worth in your
house. On paper, you might look really
wealthy, but if it came to investing in
a new opportunity, it's not like you can
liquidate your house in the next 7 days.
According to Ben Carlson from Ritholtz
Wealth Management, he says that quote,
"Today's millionaires rarely have
anywhere near a million dollars to spend
however they want. For the barely
millionaires, households with a net
worth between one to two million
dollars, the vast majority of that
wealth is illiquid. They typically had
66% of their wealth tied up to a primary
home and retirement accounts in 2023."
The general rule of thumb is to keep 3
to 6 months of living expenses in a
liquid cash at all time, and I would
even argue that if you're someone who's
growing their net worth and you have a
high income and low expenses, that
perhaps having a little bit more cash
flow or cash on hand is a nice thing to
have in case opportunities come up for
investment. Also, when you are buying
into an asset that ties up your money,
you want to think about how long that
money is going to be illiquid for. If
you're okay with it being tied up for a
certain period of time, then I think
that's fine. The mistake I think people
make more often is that they commit
money to something that they might
actually need in the future, and then
they find themselves completely screwed
when that happens. That's the trap that
we want to avoid. Trap number nine today
is delaying saving for retirement, and
this comes down to the fact that I think
that everyone is a little bit lazy and
likes to procrastinate, especially deep
down inside. One of the most important
factors in how much you retire with is
not actually how much money you earn,
it's how early you can start. So, this
is one of the most powerful graphs in
all of personal finance, and it's the
benefit of saving early. Now, here's
what happens if you save a thousand
dollars per year and earn a 7% annual
return on that money starting at either
the age of 25 here in the blue line or
at the age of 35. Now, on our channel,
we're definitely aiming to save more
than a thousand dollars per year, but
just to illustrate how big of a
difference starting earlier matters, you
can see that the person who starts at
the age of 35, they essentially end up
with half the amount that the person who
started at 25 ends up with. If you do
have a little bit of a late start, I
think that's still okay because the best
time to invest was probably yesterday,
but the next best time is right now,
today. Here's a really nice summary on
trap number nine and the way to avoid
it. So, number one, save more. Number
two, stay out of debt. Number three,
live within your means. And number four,
I think that if you can do number four,
you are well on your way, it's to save
at least half of every raise that you
earn. That means if you get a raise from
a hundred K to a hundred and ten
thousand dollars per year, you want to
put at least half of that ten thousand
dollar raise towards retirement. That's
going to serve you really well in the
future, and that's an easy rule to live
by for any future raises as well. Trap
number ten, and the one I want to leave
you with today is being underinsured. If
you're someone who's watched this video,
you're likely on your path to building
wealth, but one of the ways that you can
keep that wealth is by making sure that
you don't lose it in the first place. As
your net worth grows, your insurance
needs are going to grow with it, so your
home is going to be worth more, and you
have more assets that can be targeted in
a lawsuit or a robbery. When it comes to
your assets, you always want to be
revisiting what the stated value of your
assets are with your insurer. That way,
you're always up to date with how much
insurance you qualify for in case
something were to ever happen. I
actually heard Graham Stephan say on his
podcast that he does his insurance
check-in every Valentine's Day, which I
thought was a great idea. Not that it's
the most romantic thing, but the logic
here is that Valentine's Day is about
taking care of the people that you love.
So, what better reminder to make sure
your assets and your family are
protected than to talk to your insurance
provider on February 14th. I mean, it is
kind of funny, you don't have to do it
on February 14th, but I just thought
that that's Graham's version of love,
which I do appreciate. Anyway, that's
just a really good reminder to stay
covered and to make sure that your
coverage is actually covering what your
stuff is actually worth. All right, if
you enjoyed this video, you'll probably
enjoy my video on every way to build
your net worth in 2026. I'm going to
leave it right up here. Also, let me
know in the comments what the biggest
financial trap you have fallen for
before, I would love to hear from you.
And I will see you guys in that video
right up here or a future one on the
channel. All right, thank you for being
here. Peace.