I'm in Japan right now and what's happening here is about to affect your mortgage, your 401k, and the US dollar because Japan's 30-year treasury bond yield just hit its highest level in the past two decades, and the 10-year bond yield reached a level not seen since 1998. That might sound like a story that doesn't matter too much to you at all at home, but when Japan holds over $1.2 trillion worth of US treasuries, it matters a lot because when their bond market moves, ours moves as well. To understand why this matters, we should first understand how Japan became the most indebted country in the modern world and how this debt problem could cause a global chain reaction that hits your wallet. Japan's debt-to-GDP ratio is somewhere between 220 and 260 percent depending on what data source you use. That's the highest of any developed nation out there, and for context, the US sits at around 125 percent, and economists generally start to get worried when that hits around 90 percent or higher. That's because if your debt-to-GDP ratio is over 100 percent, that means you owe more money in a single year than you can actually produce. Think of it this way, if you make $100,000 per year and you owe $90,000 in a single year, then your debt to your income is around 90 percent, so your debt-to-GDP ratio there in that case would be 90 percent. If you owe 125K while you make 100K per year, then your debt-to-GDP ratio is 125 percent, which is the same ratio as the United States. And in Japan, using their debt-to-GDP ratio, well, if you make $100,000, that means every single year you're owing between 220 and 260 thousand dollars. That's a lot of debt that you have to service in terms of interest. Now, that's usually a huge problem, but for 30 years, Japan managed this problem with no problems because their interest rates were close to zero. Now, having interest rates close to zero or even negative is highly unusual, but why did Japan do this? It's because of the deflation that was occurring in Japan from the 1990s to the early 2010s. In the late 80s and early 90s, Japan had one of the biggest asset bubbles in history, stocks doubled, real estate nearly tripled, and it's all due to the fact that it was fueled by chief money and reckless lending. Famously, the grounds of the imperial palace were valued higher than the entirety of all the real estate in California. Now, that was a really crazy bubble, but what happens when a crazy bubble like that pops? Well, in Japan, what happened was deflation occurred. Deflation is a completely different problem than inflation, so in an inflationary environment, you expect costs of goods to go up in the future, so therefore your purchasing power of your money has less value in the future. Deflation means that things will cost less money in the future. That's the opposite of an inflation problem. So if things cost less in the future, then there's more of an advantage to me holding onto my money right now. For example, at these vending machines, if the prices of those are going to go down in the future, I might just hold off and not buy them right now because I would just rather pay a little bit less, maybe in a week or two. But therein lies the problem. If people aren't buying things right now, then other businesses aren't able to sell things. If businesses can't sell their items because consumers are basically waiting for prices to go down, then the shop owner isn't being paid either. When that happens, it causes a huge deflationary spiral, and this could last a very, very long time until the government steps in. Essentially, what happened was that this deflation lasted about 15 years, and then the government had to step in, and they had to start borrowing money and spending money in order to kind of stimulate the economy. And I'm slightly abridging this, but that's essentially how the debt to GDP ratio in Japan got to where the level it is at right now. So Japan has two separate institutions. And this is where it gets pretty interesting, in my opinion. So first, they have the government, which borrows money by issuing bonds, and then you have the Bank of Japan, which is the central bank, they're technically independent, kind of like how Congress will spend the money and the Federal Reserve will control the monetary policy to keep the cost of their debt manageable. The Bank of Japan kept interest rates close to zero, but then they still didn't really solve their deflationary problem. So what they had to do was they had to launch what's called quantitative easing. Not only did they print massive amounts of money, they kept their interest rates at zero and sometimes even negative. And they also introduced something called the yield curve control, which is where they kept how high bond yields could be. Now these stats are crazy. So the Bank of Japan now owns 50% of all government bonds for the 10 year bond in particular, they own 90% of the entire bond market. That means the central Bank of Japan here is essentially the owner of the entire bond market. When you have your central bank buying the majority of bonds that pushes bonds prices up artificially, and then yields come down. So even though Japan owes $8.6 trillion, the cost of service that debt is virtually zero because the central bank keeps buying these bonds and keeping their rates near zero. This all tends to work in a deflationary environment. But what happens when inflation arrives? So I was talking to a friend at lunch yesterday who lives in Japan, and he has actually started to notice inflation starting to occur in Japan, he said that when he goes to places like Lawson's, the things that he used to buy even just a year ago are slightly more expensive, about 10% more. So for example, if an Onigiri, which is a rice ball used to cost him about 120 yen, maybe these days, it's closer to 135 or 140. Now, this doesn't seem like a huge deal, especially if you're American, because you've been experiencing inflation for quite a bit now. But in Japan, this is a really new phenomenon. Japan's current interest rate sits at around 3%, which is not a really good thing because the Bank of Japan can't really afford to keep rates at zero. If inflation is going up, they need to do something about it. In the United States, the Federal Reserve increased interest rates in order to combat inflation and the Bank of Japan, they had this idea instead to reduce the purchases of bonds and by reducing their purchases of bonds, the yields will naturally go up. Now the problem with higher interest rates is is that the cost of services debt is now $230 billion a year. And that's 25% of Japan's overall budget. According to readers, while tax revenues are expected to keep rising, they will not be enough to pay for a steady increase in spending as a rapidly aging population and rising long term interest rates push up social welfare and debt servicing costs. So the trap they're facing is the following. Number one, you either raise rates to fight inflation, but then the debt servicing costs too much, or you just leave the rates artificially low. But then what happens is the yen will collapse in value and then you have a currency crisis instead. Now if this was just a Japan problem, we probably wouldn't care that much. But it's not just a Japan problem. And here's why. As Japan's bond yields go higher, they actually become more attractive to Japanese institutional investors. For years when interest rates were close to zeros, Japanese institutions like banks, insurance companies and pension funds, they would actually borrow money from the Bank of Japan for a virtually zero interest rate. And this created an opportunity for what's called the yen carry trade. Japanese institutions or other institutions would borrow money from the Bank of Japan for a near virtual zero interest rate, they would convert it to US dollars, and then they would take those US dollars and invest them in US treasuries, or things like US stocks. And the idea was pretty simple. If you could borrow money at 0%, but you can earn a yield of 5% in the US markets, or in the US treasuries, then why wouldn't you do that. And this arbitrage play works as long as the math remains favorable. However, right now we're seeing the Japanese 10 bond yield sit at around 2.1 to 2.2%. And the Japanese 30 year yield sits at around 3.33%. However, that reached almost 4% earlier last month. Because of this, the difference you make between borrowing in Japan and then buying US treasuries or US stocks that shrinks a lot. So here's an example. Let's pretend a Japanese pension fund borrows $1 billion worth of yen at 0.1%. And then they buy US treasuries that are yielding 4.5%. That's a 4.4% spread. That means they're essentially earning $44 million a year in profit just by using this arbitrage play. But now you can't borrow at 0.1% anymore, you have to pay 2.1% for the 10 year and the 3.3% for the 30 year, as well as you have fees, currency conversion costs and currency hedging costs, the spread between the two shrink quite a bit. And now the free money is essentially gone. And so if you were an institutional investor in Japan, why would you take on this currency risk when you could just invest in your own bonds. And this is what's happening now. This is called the unwind risk. That's when investors who borrowed yen to buy foreign investments, they're now facing higher costs. And so what do they do, they want to unwind those investments and just invest in Japan instead. In order to reduce risk, you have these Japanese institutions, they are selling off their assets, they're converting their dollars back to yen, and then they're paying down their debts. This does create a huge amount of selling pressure downwards on US treasuries. Japan is the largest foreign holder of US government debt holding between 1.1 to $1.2 trillion worth of US treasuries. If they sell these treasuries that pushes us bond yields higher and in America, if you have higher treasury yields, that means a lot of different things. higher rates means that if you're trying to buy a new house, things are going to get more expensive, especially with your mortgage. So even a 1% increase on mortgage rates on a $400,000 home that adds roughly $250 more per month to your monthly payment over 30 years, it's over $90,000 in extra interest. Number two, when interest rates rise, I could actually hurt US stock valuations, companies start to borrow less in the way that investors value stocks that actually changes quite a bit. A lot of companies in the US are valued based on a discounted cash flow model, they basically take future earnings, and then they discount them to the present using an interest rate as a baseline. When rates go up, future earnings are actually worth less today in the discounted cash flow model. So even though a stock or a company is doing quite well and profitable, you can still see their stock prices drop. And also when interest rates rise, that doesn't really help the US government either because the debt to GDP ratio in the US is still 125%. The cost of servicing American debt will go up if interest rates go up as well. And that means less tax revenue for things like infrastructure, defense, or programs that actually help people. Now everything I described so far today would be pretty bad on its own already. But Japan is facing two factors that make their situation even more dire. Factor number one is population collapse. Japan has an aging population, the current working age population in Japan, those between the ages of 15 to 64 make up about 59% of the total population. That's actually well below the global average and Japan's population is also declining. So in 2010, they had around 128 million people. But today that's less than 122 million. By the 2100 projections actually have their population at around 75 million. And you can actually see it here. I know that I'm not near any people right now. But when I'm going through Tokyo throughout the past week or so I do notice a large elderly population. Last year, Japan recorded fewer than 687,000 births. And that's actually the fewest it's been since they started tracking it back in 1899. And so this aging population actually makes the debt worse. Because if you think about it, there are fewer workers, which means that there is less tax revenue coming in fewer workers means less GDP growth, which means that the debt to GDP ratio actually gets worse even if the debt remains flat. The second factor is that almost every country is in debt right now. So Japan is not the only country dealing with the debt problem. The US is at 125%. As we talked about the UK, France and Italy, they're all running massive deficits right now. I would even say there's more government debt in the entire world right now that at any point in history. So if Japan were the only country with massive debt levels, I think that would be one thing you think that the global market could probably absorb some of that. But every major economy is competing for bond buyers at the same time, the US needs buyers, Europe needs buyers, and Japan needs buyers. And there's only so many bond buyers to go around. If Japanese institutions continue to step away from buying bonds of the US government, then that is a huge buyer that is leaving the bond market in the United States. So you've got a debt crisis, an inflation problem, an aging population problem, and you also have a compounding global debt issue. Alright, so where does this all go? I think there are three scenarios. The first scenario, I think it doesn't really go anywhere that quickly, Japan will slowly raise their rates, the markets will adjust gradually and the world will adapt. This is known as a soft landing. And I think this is the most probable outcome only because Japan has been managing this problem for the past 30 years, the Bank of Japan is smart, and hopefully they move quite slowly, they're able to normalize their inflation rates and also service their debts and basically stabilize everything. The second scenario that I can see happening is that the carry trade has negative consequences. So if Japanese yields spike faster than expected, like let's say they go to four to 4.5, or even 5%, then you're going to have that unwinding happening where institutions are selling off at US treasuries at a very rapid pace. When this happens, you're going to get selling which will trigger more selling and that will create that chain reaction that I talked about earlier in this video. We actually saw a small preview of this in April of 2025. When Japanese investors dumped over $20 billion in foreign bonds in the matter of weeks causing the stock market to dip. This could especially happen if there are some geopolitical shocks to the system. So for example, if things escalate in Taiwan, or today I was reading the news, and I and Iran was retaliating as well. If there's a sudden move in the yen that forces investors to sell off assets quickly, then this is what you're going to see. The third scenario is a full fiscal crisis. This is when the debt becomes completely unmanageable, the Bank of Japan has to start printing more money, and then you get some sort of hyperinflation scenario like you might see in countries like Venezuela. However, I think the most likely scenario that ends up happening is scenario one, that's the slow grind, slow, soft landing. Either way, if it plays out fast, or if it plays out slow, Americans are going to feel that difference, they're going to feel it through higher rates, more expensive housing, and perhaps a dollar that doesn't go as far as it used to. The era of cheap American borrowing subsidized by foreign investors is coming to an end. And that's something worth paying attention to. I'll be keeping an eye on the situation and keeping you guys updated. And let me know if you enjoyed videos like this. I am not in my usual desk setup, I am out in the wild in Japan, and Japan is a great place. So if you ever come out here, make sure to check it out. Alright, with that being said, I am going to get out of here and probably get some onigiri. And I will catch you in the next one. If you want to check out my next video, I'll leave it right here. And alright, thank you for being here. Peace.