What's up you guys? It's Graham here.
So, the market's going absolutely crazy.
And this is why it's so important that
we just talk openly about what's going
on. Because according to Peter Grandich,
we are now in the parabolic melt up
phase. When and where it peaks is
anyone's guess. It's also the exit
phase, not enter. Just remember, it's
better to be a year too early than a day
too late. Obviously, this is followed up
by the fact that year-over-year, the S&P
500 is up another 30%. The Shiller PE
ratio has reached its second highest
level ever, only slightly behind the
dot-com bubble. And if we look at
concentration peaks, yeah, AI is near
the same point as 2001 tech stocks and
the Japanese everything bubble. That's
why I'm just going to talk objectively
about what's going on, what the data
actually says is happening, why risk is
the highest it's been since 2021, and if
this is something we should be concerned
about. Because even I saw this chart and
was like, yeah, pretty scary. Anyway,
I'm getting really tired of my highly
scripted edited videos, so I just want
to talk openly about exactly what this
means and the data that I found. So, if
you appreciate a more laid-back
approach, hit the like button,
subscribe, it helps out the channel a
lot. And if you don't like these videos,
leave a comment, and I'll do my best to
respond to as many of you as I can. So,
thanks so much, and also big thank you
to Incogni for sponsoring this video.
But, more on that later. All right, so
let's talk about this elusive stock
market bubble. I think objectively,
people are just concerned because let's
be real, the stock market makes no
logical sense whatsoever. Like, we're in
the middle of an unresolved conflict
throughout the Middle East. Gas prices
are going through the roof. Everyday
living expenses are skyrocketing out of
control. And somehow, the S&P 500 just
keeps moving higher. Like, I might be
going out on a limb here, but I see a
lot of people comparing the United
States today with what happened to the
United States almost a hundred years
ago, back in the 1929 Great Depression.
In fact, you know what's scary? I see a
lot of people doing this. So, we're
going to do it, too. Just to prove a
point, here's the chart of the 1920s and
here's a chart of the last 30 years. You
blend them together, boom, confirmation
that we've begun the final stages of the
great melt up before eventually
everything goes to Or how about
Japan where their everything bubble
turned into one of the greatest
financial disasters in history? Now,
seriously, for those unaware, the stock
market from 1970 to 1989 increased by
more than 22% a year. There are just
these non-stop articles about how we're
following the exact same path with
non-stop exponential growth. Except,
updated for today, the S&P 500 would
literally be right here tracking along
perfectly. See, for Japan, their bubble
was caused by cheap interest rates that
were flooding the economy with very
inexpensive money. That allowed people
to invest more in the stock market
causing it to go up even higher. That
resulted in land value also going
higher, which resulted in more people
being able to borrow against that land
to invest back into the markets causing
the land value to also go up even
higher, allowing people to invest even
more because they borrowed even more.
And this continued for almost two
decades while people thought, "Oh, this
is the new normal." Until one day it
wasn't. As most of us know, in 1989,
their market fell 50% and due to a
combination of a shrinking workforce,
higher government spending, and
increasing taxes, their economy didn't
fully recover for almost 40 years. Or
how about the dot-com bubble? It's no
surprise back then tech stocks fell
about 78%
but today we're back to the same CAPE
ratio, well beyond the historical norm.
And we shouldn't kid ourselves, what's
happening today is absolutely nuts. Like
the Buffett indicator is 2.4 deviations
above the historical trend. Larry Page
said he would rather go bankrupt than
lose the AI race. And don't forget about
the circular nature about how every
company is somehow invested in every
other major company. Not to mention, the
top 10 stocks now make up 40% of the
entire S&P 500. Again, exceeding the
dot-com peak. So, the question then
becomes, are we in a bubble today? And
is this the beginning of the great
melt-up where prices just keep going
higher? Or is all of that completely
nonsense while we watch everyone else
around us get insanely rich? Well, to
answer that, let's play devil's advocate
first and talk about why this might be a
bubble. First, there is the argument
that stocks have become a lot more
expensive today relative to their
profits. For example, the S&P 500's
price-to-earnings forecast currently
exceeds 28, which is 2/3 higher than the
100-year average of around 17,
suggesting that companies will either
need to make a lot more money or their
share price will have to fall. Second,
there are some similarities to Japan
with their declining birth rate. Like,
ever since the 1950s, the number of
adults having children has dramatically
fallen. And around the same time, the
amount being spent on social programs
has begun to rise. This means you have a
lot fewer workers that are paying into a
system that is costing a lot more money.
This puts the burden back on the current
taxpayers, while the government spends a
lot more than they could actually
afford, so they have to raise taxes,
which is a detriment to the entire
economy. Essentially, it's said that
interest rates must remain low and debt
must grow faster than the economy just
to keep the economy from stalling out.
And third, as listed out by Lance
Roberts, we're seeing a decline in
organic savings. Check. Aging population
drawing on benefits. Check. Heavily
indebted economy. Check. Unemployment in
young people. Yep. Dependence on
productivity increases to offset that
reduced employment. Yep. Essentially,
this argument is that the economy is
falsely propped up, the fundamentals
don't support these current valuations,
and eventually everything has to revert
back to the mean, which would suggest
that the stock market would have to
fall. So, in terms of whether or not we
are in a bubble, here's exactly what you
need to know, exactly what the actual
data says, and what you could do today
to prepare, no matter what happens.
You're going to want to hear this.
Although, before we go into that, here's
what most people don't fully understand.
As more of your money and financial
history moves online, so does your
exposure. Like, think about it. Your
investments, bank accounts, and personal
details are all connected, and that
information is constantly being
collected, bought, and resold behind the
scenes by third-parties, data brokers,
and people who might want to target you.
That's where something like our sponsor
Incogni becomes really important because
instead of leaving that information out
there for anyone to find, they help you
remove it before it could be used
against you. Well, in this case, Incogni
is able to reach out to data brokers on
your behalf, request that your personal
data be removed, and then they deal with
any objections those data brokers might
have. Even better, but [clears throat]
Incogni also make sure your information
stays off the market by conducting
repeated removal requests. All you have
to do is create an account, grant them
the right to work for you, and then sit
back while they keep you updated every
step of the way. On top of that, if
you've ever Googled yourself and found
your information exposed online,
Incogni's unlimited plan now allows you
to submit custom links for removal.
Using their custom removals feature, you
could literally just copy the link to
your website that has the data, send it
to Incogni, and their team will work to
get it taken down for you. Plus, you
could submit as many of these custom
links as you want. At the end of the
day, you could spend decades building
your wealth, but it only takes one leak
for someone else to take advantage of
it. So, if you're interested in having
your personal data taken down, check out
Incogni by going to incogni.com/graham
and use the code graham at checkout to
get an extra 60% off the annual plan.
The link is also down below in the
description, and they are available
risk-free for 30 days. So, anyone could
try them out, give it a shot, and get a
full refund if you're not 100%
satisfied. Again, that link is down
below with the code graham. Thank you so
much. Now, let's get back to the video.
All right, so in terms of the stock
market, what we are currently seeing,
and if this is something to be concerned
about, here's why prices might continue
melting up higher. To start, it's
important to acknowledge that even
though yes, stocks are still expensive
when compared throughout history, these
companies, we have to admit, are making
a lot of money, more so than ever
existed during the dot-com bubble. And
even though a larger percentage of these
are making up the S&P 500, smaller
companies are beginning to catch up,
which should in theory reduce volatility
and increase the durability of this
rally. Second, speaking of market
rallies, prices don't just fall because
they get too high. Usually, there's an
unforeseen risk or something that comes
up that causes a cascade of selling. And
as of now, our 2020 bull market would be
right here on this chart, years before
some of the other crashes that have
happened to before us. The same thing
applies to earnings. Back in 2001, the
companies didn't make a lot, but today
they make and spend a ton. For example,
the Times recently ran an article saying
that outside of people believing that
Trump is going to juice the stock market
before midterms, the Magnificent Seven,
mainly Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta,
Microsoft, Nvidia, and Tesla, can't
believe I remembered all those, are
doing incredibly well. They're genuinely
impressive companies, and they help
boost confidence that the United States
is going to remain dominant throughout
the world economy. Even Fidelity
confirmed that so far earnings are
fantastic. Cash flows exceed income, net
profits exceed its five-year average.
And when you look at forward earnings,
it's still below the 2001 peak. Oh, and
speaking of 2001, here's a side-by-side
comparison. Before, the average price to
earnings peak was 65. Today, it's just
28. On top of that, people just ask
themselves, like what's the alternative
if you don't invest? If you hold cash
over the last 50 years, you've only made
an average return of 0.9%
and over the last 20 years, you would
have lost 1.8% a year in value. Meaning,
your choice is either a guaranteed loss
in cash or the possible loss short-term
in the stock market with almost infinite
upside. Now, obviously, this doesn't
mean that we're not in a bubble, but
Fidelity says there are some warning
signs that they recommend everyone be
observant of. And if you're curious what
those are, here you go. One, companies
burning through cash while spending more
than they make. Two, businesses each
owning a piece of each other to the
point where if one falls, they all fall.
Three, debt levels are growing out of
proportion to profits. Four, AI hitting
a limit in terms of how much energy it
uses, which would literally cap growth.
And five, if borrowing costs increase,
their profits will decrease. In fact,
Fidelity believes that because of AI,
the stock market's going to continue
moving higher. The simple fact that
smaller companies will adopt it.
Professional service companies,
industrial firms, health care and
utility companies, they'll all be able
to scale. And yes, when you look at the
CAPE ratio, it's high, okay? There's no
way around it. But Ben Carlson argues
that you shouldn't really be looking at
the last 150 years because that's not
how our economy works anymore. A better
metric is just to look at the last 30
years when the internet was widely
accepted. And as you can see, the
average isn't anywhere near as crazy as
people make it out to be. Margins are
also improving. And this suggests that
stocks are expensive, but they're making
so much money that eventually they're
going to be fairly priced as to what
they make. You could also look at a
chart like this and think that
everything's about to crash, or you
could compare it to valuation metrics to
the last 30 years and uh there you go,
it's not so scary. For this reason, he
followed up by saying that earnings are
remarkably strong and the stock market
is really good at not thinking about
today, but really what's going to happen
in the future. And if the stock market
isn't making you think that it's gone
absolutely crazy, it's not doing its
job. Even one analyst said that if
companies deliver on earnings
expectations and political tensions
stabilize, even slightly, there remains
a credible path for equities to move
even higher. Now yes, had you been an
investor from 1929 to 1949, over a
20-year stretch, it went pretty much
nowhere but down and sideways. But even
then, had you done nothing but invest at
the very peak and then never invested
again, you still would have been up over
11% in profit just from dividends.
Again, assuming you didn't invest a
single dollar for the subsequent next 20
years, which realistically is just going
to be impossible not to want to buy the
dip. Beyond that though, there is one
more argument that's worth talking
about. And that's this theory that the
stock market's not going up, the dollar
is just going down. Now, even though it
seems like a really interesting theory
to look at the M2 money supply, compare
it with the stock market, and come to
the conclusion that the stock market's
not a that much purely because we
printed too much money. As it turns out,
when you look at the dollar's history
throughout the last 50-plus years, we
see some wild swings up and down. And as
it turns out, the dollar depreciated
from 2002 to 12, and then it appreciated
throughout the 2010s. All during a time
when the markets went up and down and
back up again, effectively showing no
correlation whatsoever between the
dollar's value, money printing, and the
stock market going up in price. Fisher
Investments also analyzed this
phenomenon going back to the 1970s when
the dollar was taken off the gold
standard. And they found that the
correlation between the trade-weighted
dollar index and the S&P 500 returns is
only about negative .15, which is
essentially zero. On top of that, they
also found that global stocks were up
76% of the time whether the dollar was
rising or falling. This means that they
could be printing a lot of dollars into
the economy, but other factors, like
interest rates and general investor
enthusiasm have much more of an impact
on the stock market than the amount of
money in the system. So, in terms of
whether or not we are in a bubble,
here's the reality. In order for us to
see a repeat of what happened to Japan,
earnings would have to stall out
completely, and the S&P 500 would need
to rise to more than 14,000 for us to be
at the same level. Or basically, if
everything stays the exact same, but the
prices double on everything, then yes,
we risk ending up like Japan. But as
expensive as everything is, and as much
as there is the possibility that
something happens that we haven't
accounted for here in the market drops
30% as it stands right now. It looks as
though the stock market might continue
getting even more expensive over time.
Plus I'm just going to say it. The fact
that we're talking about a bubble here
means that to a certain degree the
bubble talk might be somewhat priced in.
Honestly, all of this is just to say
that now is the time to be cautious.
Make sure you have a steady income. Make
sure you're properly diversified. Make
sure you have enough to weather through
a 30 to 50% crash or correction if that
were to happen. And as long as you
continue to keep the course, any stock
market correction in the short term is
just going to be a good buying
opportunity long term. Although in terms
of what I'm doing about this, I am a
huge fan of the phrase the market can
remain irrational longer than you could
remain solvent. This means that as smart
as you are to predict the future, to
think that you know better than the rest
of the entire economy and the entire
stock market, it will constantly defy
whatever you think it will do and will
actually do the exact opposite. Like
take a look at Isaac Newton. During the
South Sea bubble of 1720, Isaac Newton
famously invested and made a lot of
money. He thought the market rally was
unsustainable until it just kept going
higher and higher and higher and all of
his friends were getting richer. So he
finally said, "Well, maybe I'm wrong.
I'm going to buy back in." And so he
bought back in near the peak. And he
thought he was a genius again because it
kept going even higher until it
eventually crashed and he lost
everything. He sold at the very bottom.
Don't let this be you. That's why I just
take the approach of investing
throughout the United States and
international markets, making sure I'm
diversified, keeping 20% on the
sidelines in Treasuries just in case.
It's also a sleep at night fund and I
just keep reiterating. No matter what,
it's become a joke these days. People
are like, "Oh, well guess what? Graham
is just going to say again, dollar cost
average into the markets. Is he just
going to keep saying the same thing over
and over again?
Yes. The people who have listened to
that over the last 9 years that I've
been making YouTube videos have done
quite well. In fact, I would argue that
those people have done better just
dollar cost averaging blindly into the
markets than those who have tried to
time everything perfectly. And this
could be you, too. As soon as you hit
the like button and subscribe if you
haven't done that already. And also, if
you want videos like this before I
release them publicly with no sponsors,
no ads, as well as bonus content every
single week. It means an extra video on
top of everything else I'm doing at
least once every week. Please join as a
channel member. Helps out tremendously.
I'm posting a lot more content over
there that just isn't
algorithm-friendly. The videos I want to
make that are more laid-back, that
aren't so like highly edited and I just
don't want to screw the algorithm here
so I can post them to members without
worrying about algorithmic consequences.
So, if you want all those extra videos
as well as early access to everything
else I'm doing, feel free to join that
membership tier. Really hope you enjoy
it. Thank you so much for watching and
until next time.