I want you to imagine that you suddenly
became rich overnight. Maybe one of your
investments went to the moon. A side
hustle you started took off. You got a
large inheritance or you won the
lottery. Believe it or not, many of you
will find yourself in one of these
scenarios. So, this video was
recommended to you for a reason. I mean,
let's take the most unlikely option,
winning the lottery. This channel's had
over 1.5 billion views. Statistically,
that's enough that a few of you have
already won the jackpot on the lottery.
And the odds say at least a couple more
of you watching right now will win in
the future. So,
that's a good thing, right? Well,
actually, when you suddenly get rich,
you're far more likely to lose friends
and family, have a greater risk of
substance abuse, and finally, divorce.
Most people who get rich fast have never
actually built wealth before and have
absolutely no idea how to manage
everything. So, here are the seven
things you need to do when you suddenly
get rich from a millionaire businessman.
I know it might be tempting to go
screaming it from the rooftops and
rubbing it in your enemies' faces, but
the absolute best move is staying as
quiet as possible and telling no one.
Privacy is really your main priority at
this point. You want to be what is known
as stealth rich. A guy called Jack
Whittaker won 314.9
million dollars from the Powerball in
2002. At the time, it was the largest
jackpot ever won by a single ticket. He
was the opposite of stealth rich. He
went around telling everyone and even
became famous for giving money to
strangers that asked him for help. He
gave away millions to the church and
even bought his friends new cars and
houses. Now, you're probably thinking he
sounds like a lovely guy, maybe a bit
silly, but he had a good heart and good
things come to kind people. Well, that
couldn't be further from the truth. His
wife divorced him, friends abandoned
him, and his granddaughter, who he
spoiled with money, tragically died from
an overdose. He later admitted that
being too much of a nice guy destroyed
both his fortune and his family. So, now
you understand the importance of being
stealth rich, how do you actually do it?
Well, even if you keep this as quiet as
possible, some people will still suspect
you. It's like those TikToks that say,
"I won't tell anyone when I become rich,
but there will be signs." This means
you'll become far more likely to get
robbed, sued, blackmailed, or scammed.
Once people know you have a bit of
money, they descend like vultures. Trust
me, I've experienced it. They say this
is because money changes people.
However, over my years, I've realized
that money actually just reveals who
that person really is. The only person
you should tell is an attorney. Make
sure you get a good one that specializes
in trust and estate planning. A trust
can save millions in taxes and provide a
healthy layer of privacy.
A lot of people will tell you not to
quit your job. However, I disagree. If
your job isn't bringing you
satisfaction, then quit the job. Don't
quit working, but quit that job. You
could even wait for the perfect moment
when your boss is pulling a power trip
like, "You need to step up your game if
you want to continue working here." and
then quit gloriously. But, please go and
find another job that you actually
enjoy, at least for a bit. When people
quit working entirely, all they have to
think about 24/7 is how they're going to
spend their money. Many end up starting
a random business they know nothing
about because they're bored and now have
the money to do it. Some people even buy
restaurants and end up on Gordon
Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares. Being rich
and bored is a really dangerous
situation to be in. The way I've always
thought of it is, if you're working,
then you're not spending. So, keep your
life as normal as possible for at least
6 months. You need to process having all
this money and not give in to the
temptation of spending it.
You might think this doesn't matter.
You're rich now, why worry about a few
little debts when you could pay off if
you wanted to? Well, these debts can
quickly start eating into your fortune
and before you know it, you'll be left
with nothing. Focus on paying back your
highest interest rate debts first. The
main culprit here is credit cards. These
often have 20 to 30% interest rates,
which eat away at your money faster than
almost anything else. Then you have car
loans and personal loans. These are
worth clearing if the rates are high.
Finally, you have mortgages. Paying off
their house is often one of the first
things people do after suddenly becoming
rich. However, this might not actually
be the best idea. If it's cheap debt,
I'm talking 2 to 3%, it might be smarter
to keep it and invest instead. This is
because you should be able to get a
better return from your investments and
that will offset the amount the debt is
costing you. So, focus on clearing that
high interest debt. It's a guaranteed
return, unlike investing, which can go
up and down. Paying off debt is the same
as earning that interest rate risk-free.
So, use this as a reset button and once
you're out of high interest debt,
promise yourself never to fall back into
that cycle.
When you become rich all of a sudden,
the people closest to you often feel
entitled to a share of it because in
their mind, you didn't earn it with
honest hard work. They'll start asking
for loans that they often don't intend
to pay back or even come up with genius
business plans they need you to invest
in. Trust me when I say the fastest way
to lose family and friends is to lend
them money. Just don't do it. They may
resent you a little in the moment, but
they'll get over it. That's far better
than getting into a messy situation
where everyone falls out. But, what if
you want to help out family and friends?
Well, I have a simple rule. If someone I
know asks me for help and they genuinely
need it, then I give them the money and
don't expect to ever be paid back on one
condition, they never ask me for money
again.
>> Can I have some money then, Mark?
>> No, you're joking in you. I pay you
plenty. I recommend you do the same
because you don't want people using you
as their emergency fund. If you help
them out once and they know they can
come back for more, they're less likely
to be responsible with their own money
because they know you'll just bail them
out again. I know this point sounds
quite heartless, but it's really the
opposite. Sometimes, you have to be
cruel to be kind. This will save you far
more friendships than just being someone
else's piggy bank.
When most people get rich quickly, they
still have a consumer mindset. They look
at the money sat in their bank account
and think about all the ways they're
going to spend it. My son's friend's
family actually won the lottery when he
was younger and his parents went out and
bought a new house worth over 10 million
dollars, a couple of sports cars, and
sent all their kids to private school.
Only 2 years later, the dream collapsed.
Curtis's friend was yanked out of
private school, sports cars were sold
off, and their 10 million dollar home
was desperately listed for 6.5 million
dollars after bad improvements and
crushing debt forced them to sell. This
all happened because they didn't
understand the golden rule. Never spend
the principal, only the interest. You
should be trying to grow a money tree
that produces new income every month,
not cutting it down for temporary
firewood. That's where your freedom
figure comes in. Work out exactly how
much income you need each year to live
the life you want, then multiply it by
25. So, if you want an income of 200,000
dollars per year, you'll need to invest
at least 5 million dollars of your new
wealth. The idea is that you'll never
actually have to dip into the 5 million
and be able to live on the 200,000
dollars of interest every year. Even if
you haven't received a large sum of
money and become instantly rich, it's
still worth working out your freedom
figure as it's a great target to aim
for. The rule of 25 is based on a 4%
safe withdrawal rate. I personally aim
to grow my money by more than 4% though,
just to be safe. That brings us on to
The most common thing I hear is, "Where
can I find those kinds of interest
rates? My account only gives me 0.5%."
The truth is, you're not likely to find
the kind of interest rates you need for
the rule of 25 in an ordinary account.
You need to open an investing account.
So, let's say you somehow got your hands
on that 5 million dollars we talked
about earlier. How could you invest it?
Well, at this stage, it's way more about
preservation than growth. Of course,
this does depend on your age and how
much risk you want to take, but here's
an example of how I would consider
splitting it up. Remember, I'm not a
financial advisor and this isn't
financial advice. First of all, I'd put
1 million dollars into a low-cost total
stock market index fund, just like this
one. It includes over 1,300 different
stocks, so it's very diversified. Its
top holdings are big companies like
Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Nvidia, and
Alphabet. This is your long-term growth
engine and has averaged about 9% per
year over the last 20 years, but future
returns could be higher or lower. On 1
million dollars, that's around 90,000
dollars a year. Second, I'd put 1
million dollars into a low-cost total
bond market index fund, such as this
one. A bond fund is a pool of loans you
give to governments or companies.
Instead of owning one bond, you own a
basket of many, which pays you regular
interest and is generally considered
safer than stocks. This should help you
with stability in the event of a market
crash. Broad bond market indexes have
averaged 4% returns per year. On 1
million dollars, that's 40,000 dollars a
year. Third, I'd put half a million
dollars into residential real estate,
like single-family homes, and another
500,000 into commercial real estate,
like warehouses. I like this split as
residential real estate is great for
property appreciation. US housing has
historically grown at about 7% annually.
So, on 500,000, that's $35,000
a year. Commercial real estate is great
for steady cash flow as tenants normally
stay for years and also maintain the
property. If you buy right, then this
historically gives returns of around 8%
per year. So, on $500,000,
that's 40K a year. Fourth, I'll put half
a million dollars into blue-chip crypto
like Bitcoin and Ethereum. Bitcoin has
been one of the best-performing assets
of the last decade. So, it makes sense
to have it in an investment portfolio.
However, it is highly volatile and can
go down just as fast as it goes up. So,
treating it as a 5 to 10% moonshot
allocation makes sense. Bitcoin's last
decade saw explosive gains of 49%
annually, but past performance doesn't
predict the future. So, let's normalize
it to a 10 to 15% range. $500,000 could
average roughly 62.5K
per year. Fifth, I'll put $1 million
into a high-interest savings account
such as this one from SoFi that offers
up to 4.5%
on $1 million, that's 45K a year.
Altogether, that example portfolio could
generate around $312,500
per year in passive income if markets
perform like their long-term averages.
But remember, past performance is no
guarantee of future results. If you want
to get started building an investing
portfolio, I actually reached out to
Trading 212 to see if they wanted to
sponsor this portion of the video. They
agreed and are actually giving you a
free fractional share worth up to £100
when you use the code Tilbury in the
promo code section of the app. Don't
wait to win the lottery to get started
with this. Just get it set up now and
trust me, you'll thank yourself in the
future.
The ones paying very close attention
will realize that I missed out 500K from
that $5 million investment portfolio
example. That's because you should spend
that 500K on whatever you like. Call it
fun money. I went through this stage and
realized that having money isn't about
Lambos or mansions. It's about never
having to do things you don't want to
do. Real wealth is waking up and
deciding how to spend your day. Don't be
like those lottery winners who blow it
all chasing possessions, not freedom.
The rich that stay rich are the ones who
buy back their time. Once you've secured
yourself, think beyond yourself and
leave a legacy. If you want to learn
exactly how to invest for beginners,
then I'm going to leave that video right
up there. But don't click on it just
yet. Make sure to subscribe if you want
to grow your wealth, okay? I'll see you
over there.